Readme
================
Douwe Horsthuis
2023-01-15

![](images/image-1681266729.png)

![](images/image-37567620.png)

This Repo contains course summaries tasks and self written summaries for
the Coursera course **SAS Programmer Specialization.** There are 4
courses that lead to a Professional Certificate. Each course has itâ€™s
own summary:

Course 1: [Getting Started With SAS
Programming](https://github.com/DouweHorsthuis/sas/blob/main/SAS-Course-part-1-out-of-4.md)

Subjects: \[ SAS steps, Exporting data, Simple Syntax error solving
steps, Column lengths, Missing values, Libraries, Working with excel
data, Importing unstructured data, Procedures, WHERE statement (Missing
values and WHERE statements, Wildcards for WHERE statements), Format
statements (Decimals, Date), combining statement, Macro variables,
Formatting your output, Sorting values, Deleting duplicates, Creating
new Columns (Using Functions), Conditional Processing with IF-THEN/ELSE
(Processing Multiple Statements with IF-THEN/DO), Report (Using Titles
and Footnotes, Labels for column names, Segmenting Reports, No
observations, Frequency report, Summary Statistics Report), ODS
statement, SQL\].

Course 2: [Doing More with SAS
Programming](https://github.com/DouweHorsthuis/sas/blob/main/SAS-Course-part-2-out-of-4.md)

Subjects: \[Data step (Order), Debugging (SAS Enterprise debugger,
Online platform, Implicit and explicit outputs, Accumulating column),
Functions (Calculation, Formatting, Character functions, Call routine,
Converting column type), Combining tables (Concatenating tables,
One-to-one merge, One-to-many merge, Merging non-matching rows, Merging
multiple tables), Do Loops (Iterative DO loops, Conditional DO loops,
Combining both types of DO loops,Restructuring Data (Restructuring table
structures, Transposing)\].

Course 3: TO BE STARTED

Course 4: TO BE STARTED
